Notes Dec 10th 2024: meeting with the chair 

- Main concern of the chair: not enough applications to OGS by international students. Increasing applications leads to increased number of grants assigned to the department. How to solve this? Proposals include:
	- Starting/recovering the workshop for OGS applications, starting a focused slack channel (akin to the one for NSERC) or a general thread for awards. 
	- The department digest was mentioned as having been helpful. 
	- Broadening the scope of action to all grants since the marginal cost of applying decreases as one applies to more grants.
	- Pressure advisors to tell their students to apply to OGS
	- The chair emphasized a need to change the culture around awards in the department to encourage applications.

- Participation was also a problem within the subject of research day, where there is a discussion involving who should be presenting. Fortunately, there seems to be proactivity and interest from the current first-year cohort, but some older cohorts seem to lack a general enthusiasm around presenting, both in research day as well as generally in seminars (Brown Bag). It was also noted BB is not as informal as it was intended to be, and thus induces a certain deference in younger students, but this is a discussion that would be more suited for its organisers.

- The department is running out of desks for PhD students, for which a number of proposals were mentioned: 
	- An opt-in system in which a desk is not provided by default, but rather an application has to be made. A yearly renewal seemed to be the optimal pairing to it.
	- Rotating desks in the spirit of the system in place at Vector, where students sign up daily to reserve a desk or working space/hotelling.
	- A mixed system by which students could sign up to only have a shared or rotating desk, while those that preferred a fixed one would also be accommodated.
	- The logistics of how the application would work were discussed, but not specified. A personal desk would definitely have to be kept after a renewal.

- Some comments were made on the incident in which there was an apparent theft of food from the pantry fridge, but no definitive solution was reached rather than expecting more vigilance from its users, since setting up a cctv system was quickly discarded as an option.

- It was revealed that the office space the department is in was supposed to be a temporary location, subject to change in the near future.

- The increase in the base pay of PhD students led to a long yet not very productive discussion, albeit with admitted and intentional lack of transparency by the financial officer as to the effects of this raise for students. Few details were made clear, only that the base pay would increase for PhD students across the university and the department was responsible for said increases.